BI Certificate Final

In this final you will create an entire Business Intelligence solution. This activity will take you about 15 to 20 hours, so plan accordingly! 

The activity consists of the follow steps:

1. Review the chapters from your textbook.
2. Create the OLTP Database with Instructors Script
3. Design a Data Warehouse
4. Start the Solution Developer Document in Excel
5. Create a Data Warehouse script
6. Create an ETL script
7. Create an SSIS ETL project and package
8. Create an SSAS project with Dimensions and a Cube
9. Create an SSRS project with both a Cube and a DW report
10. Create an Excel workbook with both a Cube and a DW report
11. Update the Solution Developer Document in Excel

Review the chapters from your textbook 
You will be creating a new BI solution using a new database provided by your instructor! This means that you may have to review many of the chapters in the book as needed. It is recommend that you start with reviewing chapter 2 since it outlines all the steps involved with creating a BI solution in a single chapter.

Create the OLTP Database with Instructors Script
You need to create a new database with the script file provide by your instructor called, Create the UWFinalDB database.sql. Review the code within and execute it to create the new database.

Design a Data Warehouse
You need design a new data warehouse database based on the new FinalDB database. Use the same techniques you learned in class.

Start the Solution Developer Document in Excel
You need to create an Excel that documents you development of the BI solution. You can use the Excel spreadsheet included as a template. 

Create a Data Warehouse script
You need to create a Data Warehouse script for your solution. 

Create an ETL script
You need to create an ETL SQL script for your solution. 

Create an SSIS ETL project and package
You need to create an SSIS ETL project and package for your solution. 

Create an SSAS project with Dimensions and a Cube
You need to create an SSAS project with dimensions and a cube for your solution. 

Create an SSRS project with both a Cube and a DW report
You need to create an SSRS reporting project with one DW report and one Cube report for your solution.

Create an Excel workbook with both a Cube and a DW report
You need to create an Excel workbook with one DW report and one Cube report for your solution. 

Update the Solution Developer Document in Excel
At that point you need to update your Excel development document to accurately record the objects in your BI solution.
